.\" $Id: formatshield.8,v 1.0 2008/01/02 10:36:40 Pankaj Kohli $
.TH FORMATSHIELD 8 "January 2008" "formatshield"
.SH NAME
formatshield \- binary rewriting defense against format string attacks
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I formatshield 
protects against format string attacks by dumping context information 
corresponding to the vulnerable call sites in an ELF binary. Functions
vulnerable to format string attacks include the printf family, syslog, vsyslog,
warn/err family.
.PP
.I formatshield
is used by specifying it in the
.B LD_PRELOAD
environment variable or in the
.I /etc/ld.so.preload
file. This instructs the dynamic linker, ld.so, to preload the
.I libfshield.so
dynamic library so it may intercept calls to the functions it protects.
.PP
When a program protected by
.I formatshield
encounters a user specified format string with format specifier(s) with the a
context present in the list of contexts of vulnerable call sites in the program, 
a message is logged to syslog and the process is killed.
.PP
.B WARNING\: formatshield
can be used to protect against compromises due to yet undiscovered
vulnerabilities in privileged programs but denial of service (DoS) attacks
are still possible.
.B Always install security patches provided by your operating system vendor.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/ld.so.preload
A file containing a list of shared libraries to be loaded after all others.
Used to selectively override functions in other shared libraries. Handled
by
.IR ld.so (8).
.TP
.I /proc/self/maps
A file containing the currently mapped memory regions of the current process
and their access permissions.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I LD_PRELOAD
See the discussion of
.I /etc/ld.so.preload
above.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
env LD_PRELOAD=/lib/libfshield.so.1 /usr/sbin/in.ftpd -S
Start ftpd with format string protection.
.SH AUTHOR
Pankaj Kohli <pankaj_kohli@research.iiit.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ld.so (8),
.BR printf (3),
.BR syslog (3)
